>> Sarah Drasner: SVG anatomy overview.
Let's talk a little bit about what SVG is,
why it's cool, why we use it.
And then we're gonna talk about
what the internals are because
before we even animate, we really need
to figure out what's in that DOM.
Sometimes when you open an SVG and
you've never seen an SVG before,
you're like,
what is all of this number garbage?
And we're gonna break that down so that
that doesn't seem intimidating for you.
SVG, it's crisp on any display.
It's in a vector format, so basically,
we're drawing these points with math.
And no matter how big or small it gets,
it's gonna stay completely crisp.
So that's really nice.
You know how when you're
doing responsivedev,
sometimes when you have a png of
the cut up many multiple images.
You use a picture element or source set,
and you've gotta add all of them,
get them from the designer,
all this stuff.
With SVG, you're delivering one asset and
you can make it scale for all the devices.
We're gonna do some really tricky
fun stuff with responsive SVGs.
It's less http requests to handle.
In fact, it can be no more http requests
to handle cuz you can put it directly in
line in the HTML.
So you can actually have it
not incur that extra cost.
It's easily scalable for responsive,
that's in the name,
scalable vector graphics.
So it's very squishy and
organized, like show and
learn what we can do with
that squishyness today.
It's a really small file size
if you design for performance.
If you design for
performance is a major piece of that.
So we're going to talk a little bit about
how to make sure your SVGs are built
appropriately and not abusing the DOM
while you're building them out.
But some of the stuff that you can do
in just a few kilobytes of
data is really amazing.
It's incredible, especially if you
compare to a giant PNG or a giant JPEG.
So that's really cool.
It's easy to animate,
that's part of the reason why we're here.
It has a navigable DOM.
This is so cool because with a PMG,
you basically have this flat image.
So if you see a picture of me,
then in order to move my hand,
you would have to cut out the hand.
Then you'd have to figure out what
would be in back of the hand.
And then you'd have to absolutely
position it on top of there.
Then you'd have to then move it,
but then if it was responsive,
I'd have to change all
of those parameters.
SVG already has navigable DOM.
That arm is already ready for
me to just move independently.
And it's not different from other HTML.
You can slap a class on it and
move it around with CSS.
And you can move it
around with JavaScript.
All of those same things that
you already know how to do
from being a web developer
apply to SVG as well.
It's easy to make accessible,
I love this part.
There's like many, many tiers of how
accessible you can make your SVG.
I'm gonna show you the base thing that
pretty much most things would be.
There's a whole slew of other
ways of making SVGs accessible.
I'll also give you resources, so
you can check out more crazy things
you can do with SVG accessibility.
Especially if you're making data
visualizations or something like that,
you might wanna make things a little
bit more screen reader happy.
But I'm just gonna show you what you
probably want nine times out of ten,
maybe more than that.
And it's fun.
Remember fun?
I like fun.
It's been a while.
[LAUGH] We're gonna have
a lot of fun today.
I really have a great time
making these SVG animations.
Sometimes if I'm hanging out on
the weekend watching a movie,
that's what I do for fun,
is make these SVG animations.
So it's really great for
web development but it can also be
something that you do on the side, just to
replenish your love for a web development.